Extracted Text:

================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

$1m rasva Beyit

INSTRUCTION

anti-UAV

(Small Special Task Force)

Kiev, 2024


content

1. Introduction
2. Anti-UAV crew.
3. Technical support
3.1. Means of detection of UAVs ....
3.2. - UAV countermeasures. .
3.3. Power supplies ... . . .
3.4. - Means of communication
3.5. Orientation tools
3.6. - Checking the equipment .... . . . . . . . . . . . . 1.L+++.
3.6.1. Verification of the means of detection of UAVs.
3.6.2. Verification of UAV countermeasures
4. Security measures
5. Operational procedures
5.1. Preparatory part
1. Getting the job done
2. Mission planning
3. Preparation and verification of technical equipment ...
4. Selection and arrangement of positions
5
6.

Cloaking
Communications organization
Performing the task
5. 2.1. UAV detection
5.2.1.1. Signal level and distance to the UAV. . .
5.2.1.2. Definition of UAV direction. . . . . . . . . .

5.2. 1.3. Additional features for the operator of detection of UAVs . . . ... 20.
5. 2.2. Countering UAVs ... . . . . . . . Line 21.
5.2.2.1. Work of the operator of countermeasures UAV in the infantry
units. . .

5.3. Leaving position
6. Annex 1. The procedure for working with a drone detector based on the spectrum analyzer "NPUZA"
Both with the firmware version U3.2.0. . . . . . . . ...
24.
6.1. Description
6.2. - Rules of use
6.3. Setting up
6.4. - Technical specifications
6.5. Notes on the 5.8 GHz range.
6.6. - Controls of the spectrum analyzer "tuza va".
6.7. Power on, power control and charging
6.7.1. Inclusion
6.7.2. Nutrition control
6.7.3. Charging.
6.8. - Mode selection. . .
6.9. Display elements
6.10. Scaling function
6.10.1. Method 1 - Manual scaling
6.10.2. Method 2 – Automatic scaling of the strongest signal
6.11. Frequency search. . .
6.12. Screen menu.
6.13. The work of a drone detector with a remote antenna. . .
6.14. Sound and light alarm systems ... . . . . . . . .

6.14.1. Sound alarm system
6.14.2. Light signalling of the Ini line
6.14.3. Configure exceptions for alarms ("special" ranges). . .

7. Annex 2. Examples of patterns of emission spectra of signals of some UAVs .....41
8. Annex 3. Examples of patterns of EW signal radiation spectra... . . . . . . . . . Lenin 48




1. Introduction

Means of detection and counteraction of UAVs play an important role in ensuring
security of advanced units of the Armed Forces, as well as artillery, equipment and
warehouses. In fact, the detection of UAVs is a function of RER (radio-electronic intelligence), and
UAV counteraction is a function of electronic warfare (EW). Because of scarcity.
special military systems RER / EW, fighters must master the work with small-scale
means of individual use.

Use UAV countermeasures according to plan and
procedures designed in advance to minimize risks to personnel and
other facilities.

It is important to remember that the use of portable UAV countermeasures in
conditions of hostilities can be dangerous and must be conducted only by experienced and
Professional specialists in compliance with all safety requirements.

Always follow the manufacturer's instructions when using technical
detection and countermeasures of the UAV and, if necessary, contact
Helping professionals.

2. Anti-UAV calculation

$ Some means of countering UAVs have much less
efficiency without the simultaneous use of UAV detection tools. Besides,
use of UAV countermeasures without proper training and coordination,
It could hurt friendly units.

The calculation of anti-UAVs should include at least:

1. Operator of UAV detection tools (commander of calculation) - work with technical
UAV detection, coordination of calculation, coordination with
neighboring units and base, communications.

2. Operator of UAV countermeasures - work with technical means
UAV countermeasures.

The recommended composition of the calculation of anti-UAV:

1. Operator of UAV detection tools (commander of calculation) - work with technical
UAV detection, coordination of calculation, coordination with
neighboring units and base, communications.

2. Operator of UAV countermeasures - work with technical means
UAV countermeasures.

3. Support group (2 fighters) - assistance in arrangement of positions, maintenance
surveillance, security and fire cover.

4. The driver (may be part of the support group).

All fighters of anti-UAV calculation must know the technical means and be able to

Use them for the possibility of interchange.

In case of state restrictions, the calculation of the anti-UAV can consist of one fighter,
who performs all activities independently and must have the appropriate skills
Work with all the equipment.

3. Technical support
Calculation of anti-UAV uses the following technical means:
UAV detection equipment.
UAV countermeasures.
Communications.
Power supplies.
Orienteering equipment.

willow

3.1. UAV detection tools


5

Calculation of anti-UAV should use all available means and methods
detection of air targets in the area of responsibility, such as:

Electronic radio frequency drone detectors.

Optical observation devices (binoculars, visual tubes, PNB, etc.).
Thermal imaging surveillance devices (monoculars, sights, etc.).

Auditory control (sense organs, active headphones, special microphones, etc.).
Information from other sources, such as RER, air defense and neighboring
units.


6
For long-term and early detection of UAVs, electronic
drone detectors (drone detectors). Some modern industrial
Drone detectors independently (automatically) determine the manufacturer and type of UAV and output
its name on the display, in addition, they automatically report the detection
UAVs using sound and light signals. Such devices may be stationary,
They are portable and have a fairly high cost.

Portable industrial drone detectors for industrial use

Due to the lack of available portable industrial drone detectors, we
homemade devices (drone detectors) based on the analyzer are produced
It's called "#Oga" or "ZA6." The spectrum analyzer "AtuZA ha" has a special
adapted firmware "REP UAV" for convenient and understandable use.

windows

Ovonaise,

Spectrum Analyzer "Npuza Oga" with specialty

All drone detectors, both industrial and home-made, can work with
directional antennas to search for directions to the UAV or with non-directional
360 degree circular monitoring.


7

Ishischadda:

Non-directional single-band pin antennas
(Select antennas with hinge attachment)

Iowa

Non-directional all-band pin antennas omnidirectional

Whoa,

Directed all-band antennas (logoperiodic "triangle" and horn)
"vivaldi"

2%

Strictly directed antennas "wave channel" ("uar1"), pictured for the bands 2.4/5.8


Hz


9.
3.2. UAV countermeasures

The counteraction of the UAV is to muffle (suppress) the radio frequencies of the UAV (more precisely,
frequency bands that use UAVs. For this purpose, powerful transmitters with
appropriate antennas. UAV countermeasures are stationary,
Portable and mobile. Due to the different types of antennas, they are
circular action (the so-called "dome electronic warfare") and directed action (the so-called "dome electronic warfare")
"Anti-drone gun." In turn, anti-drone guns are also different.
design and appearance - long "space blasters" have a very narrow angle
radiation (about 10 degrees) and require constant and careful "aiming", flat
"Shovel/iron/pan/cloth-like" devices give a wider radiation angle (30-60)
degrees) and they can be "directed". In turn, emitters for different
frequencies also have different angles of radiation (the lower the frequency, the greater the angle of radiation),
The following are approximate values for flat wide-angle anti-drone guns:

1.2/1.5 GHz - 60°=120°
. 24 GHz - 30°-=40°
5.2/5.8 GHz - 20°-30°
The total power of the portable dome EW is approximately 100-500 W,
Anti-drone rifles - from 10 watts to 150 watts. Dome electronic warfare and anti-drone guns can
have one to nine jamming channels, some models have a built-in detector
drones. In some models of anti-drone guns, for more effective jamming
certain diarazone, two blocks of interference are installed, which work in different
Polarization, in order to
jamming was effective at any position of the UAV relative to the antennas of the anti-drone gun.

For the ability to work in different modes and for different tasks, devices
UAVs usually have separate switches for each frequency
range (channel jamming) - this saves battery power and reduces the risk of being
Wearable.

Effective range of portable dome EW (which work)
constantly and require stable food) is 300-2000 meters. Most anti-
drone guns are effective at a distance of 1500-2500 meters on control signals and
video transmission and up to 1500 meters on navigation signals. In the case of urban employment
conditions, the range of effective UAV counteraction is sharply reduced due to
obstacles in the form of urban infrastructure. Even tree branches extinguish radiation - than
The higher the frequency, the more such interference is affected.

Examples of portable dome electronic warfare with circular and sector (panel) antennas

hmm

Examples of narrowly targeted anti-drone guns



10.
Examples of wide-directional anti-drone guns


11.

Control frequencies, video transmission frequencies and system frequencies are usually jammed.
Satellite navigation (CMNo$5 - C1) both! In turn,
Satellite navigation jamming provides for blocking the reception of CNo55 signals
known operators because the blocking of one or more operators C©MNo5$
It may not be effective.

A list of frequency bands that some UAVs use and that are needed
jammed, given in the table (if given one frequency is the central frequency of the band)

frequency.
Control, Telemetry, Video, MHz
Model UAV MHz (band, MHz (band, (band, navigation, MHz))
MHz) MHz
Hall 421 433-435 863-873 (0.21) 1100-1250 (5) | 1561
Lancet 902-928 (0.21) 2160-2450 (5) | 1575
Merlin 2520-2550 (5) 1596-1608
Orlan 200-450 863-928 (band | 1080-1300 (10, | CRPA Comet)
2, 4; signal 0.1, 14)
0.2, 0.25, 0.4)
Orlan M 960-1050 (2.4) | 2300-2700 (2, | CRPA Comet)
4, 8, 16, 32)
Supercamps 837-887 (5) 976.5=1222.5 (8)| 1572.42
(10 bands of 150 kHz, 860-917 (5) 1296-1302 (8) 575.42
general band 5 970-975 (5) 1365-1375 (8) 602
MHz 1004-1020 (5) 1383-1390 (8)
Supercams 1015-1120 (4+4) | 976.5-=1222.5 (8) | 1572.42
(2 4 MHz bands) 1124-1132 (4+4) | 1296-1302 (8) 575.42
1110-1387 (4+4) | 1383-1400 (8) 602
Eleron 860-1020 (5) | 860-1020 (5) 976.5=1222.5 572.42
(10 lanes at 150 kHz, 575.42
5 MHz common band) 602
Orion 890-920 (1) 572.42
575.42
602
grenade 915-928 (12.5) 572.42
575.42
602
Tachyon 915-920 (5) 572.42
575.42
602
ERU 400 -450 1080-1320 (26)
700-1050 2400-2500 (26)
868 (26) - Standard frequency | 4900 (26)
915 (26) - Standard frequency | 5700-5900 (26)
1100-1300
2400-2585
ol 2400-2585 (20) 500 (1550-1620)
5150-5300 (20)
5725-5850 (20)
Outel 2400-2585 (20, 40) 500 (1550-1620)
5150-5300 (20, 40)
5725-5850 (20, 40)
A] EUO MAX 4T | 850-940 (20, 40) 200 (1170-1260)
2400-2483 (20, 40) 500 (1550-1620)
5150-5250 (20, 40)
5725-5850 (20, 40)
Satellite 200 (1170-1260)

naval
range (SMNo5$G2)

227.6 +/-12



12.

Satellite 1500 (1550-1620)
navigation 1575.42 +/-12
civilian
range (SMNo5$G1)



13

©P$15 @aSheo E5B RZ
Sashoo Eba at 5 in 2.
19433 6 ©P$12C in0$B11 Sasheo E1 GLONASS E1

1207.14 +
1176.45 +10.23 MHz 2.046 MHz

1561.098 +2,046 MHz 1575.42 +

1227.6 +1.023 MHz 1.023 MHz

1601,71875 +3,91175 MHz

you
1207.14 +10.23 MHz 1575.42 +2.046 MHz

Duapazon 1.2 GHz | Duapazon 1.5 GHz ]

Frequency ranges of satellite navigation system operators (©#55$)

3.3. Power supplies
In the field, there is often no access to electricity, so

ensuring long-term and uninterrupted operation of UAV countermeasures,
Additional sources of food are needed. Such sources may be:

X Portable generators 220 V.

. 12V car outlets.

* Charging stations.

* Solar panels.

"Inverters."

* Additional battery packs.

"Poverbanks."

$ Please note that if there is an additional external battery
anti-drone gun unit, it needs to be connected to the power connector / charge over?
start of work. If an additional external battery is connected when built-in
The battery is discharged, the capacity of the additional external battery will be
used not only for the operation of the device, but also for the charge of the built-in battery,
in this case, the recoil current of the additional external battery may become excessive
large, which can lead to damage to the power connector and wires, and
overheating of both the built-in and additional external battery.

Some models of anti-drone guns have removable batteries, so
They replace the built-in battery with an additional fresh one.
It's done with radio stations.

3.4. Means of communication

Communication is provided by the use of personal radio stations. Calculation

The anti-UAV uses communications for the following purposes:

1. Communication with neighbouring units to receive and/or transmit
Reports of threats from the sky.

2. Communication with neighboring units to receive launch reports
their UAVs.

3. Interaction within the calculation and communication with the base with respect to displacements
positions, transportation of equipment, delivery of batteries and the like.


14.
3.5. Orientation tools

The key to successful completion of any task is the availability of funds.
Orientation and ability to use them.

Each fighter calculation anti-UAV must have a compass and a smartphone with installed
mapping software (Delta, Krapiva, Milchat, Armor, Combat,
Alpine Quest, etc.).

Special software allows preliminary exploration
terrain before reaching the position, plan the routes of calculation, place
collection and shelter of vehicles, place or load the necessary facilities and
markings on the map.

3.6. Equipment inspection

Having a certain equipment, you need to know its technical characteristics.
And, more importantly, its real potential.

To detect UAVs, you need to know the following:

Distance (distance and/or height) of detection of certain types of UAV
A drone detector.

Distance (distance and/or height) of identification of certain types
A drone detector.

Distance and/or height of detection of certain types of UAV
means of acoustic observation (sense organs, active headphones,
Special directional microphones, microphone grilles, etc.).

Distance (distance and/or height) of identification of certain types
UAVs by means of acoustic observation (sense organs, active ones)
headphones, special directional microphones, microphone grilles and
Etc.

Distance and/or height of detection of certain types of UAV
means of optical observation (binoculars, visual tubes, etc.).

. Distance (distance and/or height) of identification of certain types
UAV means of optical observation (binoculars, visual tubes, etc.).

Distance and/or height of detection of certain types of UAV
means of thermal imaging surveillance (monoculars, sights, etc.).

. Distance (distance and/or height) of identification of certain types
UAV means of thermal imaging (monoculars, sights, etc.).

® Accuracy of determining the direction of certain types of UAVs

Different ways. To counter the UAV is necessary
know the following:

? Maximum distance (distance and/or height) of effective jamming
certain types of UAVs.

x Operating time of countermeasures UAV on the built-in battery with
different loads (with different number of jamming channels included).

? Time of operation of countermeasures UAVs with connected
additional external battery with different loads (with different loads)
The number of jamming channels included).

® Operation time of means of countering the UAV before the appearance of tangible heating
equipment.

Influence of radiation of an anti-drone gun or "dome" of electronic electronic warfare
devices at different distances and directions relative to equipment
UAV countermeasures.

Appropriately positioned equipment for inspection
test participants (UAV, UAV operator (control panel), operator of funds
UAV detection, UAV countermeasures operator, observer(s)


15.
3.6.1. Verification of UAV detection tools
Option 1.

((< 5 >) [C |)

UAV
UAV operator Operator
3000-5,000 m
4 detections
Standard verification of BIL detection devices
UAV

r)
2)

(3)

(4)
(5)

(6)

The operator of UAV detection devices is located at a distance of 3000-5000
Meters from the UAV operator and communicates with him via radio.

UAV operator launches UAV at an altitude of 100 meters and sends it sideways
location of the operator of the detection means. Between the UAV and the UAV operator
There shall be no obstacles in the form of hills and/or vegetation. The UAV should
Be in line of sight of the UAV operator.

The operator of UAV detection devices turns on its device and scans
frequency range (frequency ranges) on which the UAV operates and
Record the presence or absence of signals. Optimal selection
The direction and polarization of the antenna.

The UAV operator periodically reports by radio the distance from the UAV to itself.
During the approach of the UAV, the UAV detection device should appear and
gradually increase the signal from the UAV.

After confirmation by the operator of the means of detection of BIL on receipt
stable signal and UAV identification capabilities, UAV operator
Returns the UAV to its takeoff point.

Repeat the procedure for different UAV height values.

This check is performed with all available UAVs - as a quadcopter type,
It's a plane type. Maximum detection distance and/or height
identification of certain types of BILs are recorded for the test vehicle
UAV detection.

In the same way, the detection range of different types is checked and
UAV models with acoustic, optical and thermal imaging means of observation.


16
Option 2.

UAV operator 4000-100 m

and

Operator--
The Observer's resources
Detection Additional verification of UAV detection tools

1) The operator of UAV detection devices is located together with the operator of the UAV.

2) The operator of the UAV sets the height of the UAV home 100 meters and
sets the mode of returning home when the control signal is lost, starts
The UAV is at an altitude of 100 meters and sends it to a distance of 4000 meters from itself.
Between the UAV and the UAV operator should not be obstacles in the form of hills
and/or vegetation. UAV must be in the line of sight of the operator
UAV.

(3) The operator of the UAV turns off its remote control, while the Bila begins
Move to takeoff point.

(4) Operator of detection tools BIL turns on its device and scans
frequency range (frequency ranges) on which the UAV operates and
Record the presence or absence of signals. Optimal selection
The direction and polarization of the antenna.

(5) The observer(s) shall periodically radio the position of the UAV
(distance to operator of UAV detection equipment) according to advance
the landmarks studied.

(6) During the approach of the UAV, the UAV detection device should appear and
gradually increase the signal from the UAV.

7) After the UAV returns to the takeoff site, the UAV operator turns on its remote control.
control and safely land the UAV.

Repeat the procedure for different heights of the UAV home.

This check is performed with all available UAVs - as a quadcopter type,

It's a plane type. Maximum detection distance and/or height
identification of certain types of BILs are recorded for the test vehicle
UAV detection.

In the same way, the detection and identification range is checked.

various types and models of UAV acoustic, optical and thermal imaging
surveillance devices.


17.

3.6.2. Verification of UAV countermeasures
Option 1.

in" =}

? Se
No.

7,500-2900m ^^ <? ‹ 2500=100m (1)
ini
UAV operator UAV Operator
funds
counteract
I'm a UAV.

2)

(3)

(4)
(5)

(6)

7)
(8)

(9)

Standard verification of UAV countermeasures

The operator of countermeasures UAV is located at a distance of 3000 meters
from the UAV operator and communicates with him via radio.

The UAV operator launches the UAV at an altitude of 100-200 meters and sends it to
500 meters away from you. Between the UAV and the UAV operator should not be
obstacles in the form of hills and/or vegetation. The UAV must be in
Direct line of sight of the UAV operator.

Operator of UAV countermeasures includes jamming signals
Satellite navigation and informs the operator of the UAV.

The UAV operator reports whether the satellites are missing from the UAV.

UAV countermeasures operator turns off signal jamming
Satellite navigation and informs the operator of the UAV.

Operator of UAV countermeasures includes jamming control signals
UAV and informs the operator of the UAV.

The UAV operator is reporting whether the UAV control has disappeared.

UAV countermeasures operator turns off signal jamming
control of the UAV and informs the UAV operator about it.

Paragraphs 2-8 are repeated with increasing distance between the UAV and the operator.
UAVs, for example, 1000, 1500, 2000, 2500, 2900 meters.

This check is performed with all available UAVs - as a quadcopter type,
It's a plane type. Maximum distance (distance and/or height)
jamming certain types of UAVs (separately for navigation signals and for signals)
control) recorded for the test means of countering the UAV.


18.

Option 2.

Operator of BILA Funds Operator

r)
2)

(3)

(4)
(5)

(6)

7)
(8)

(9)

500-2000+m

counteract
I'm a UAV.

Additional verification of UAV countermeasures

Operator of countermeasures Bila is located in front of the operator Bila
At a distance of 50-100 meters and communicates with him via radio.

The UAV operator launches the UAV at an altitude of 100-200 meters and sends it to
distance of 500 meters from the operator of countermeasures UAV. Between UAVs.
and the operator of the UAV must not be obstacles in the form of hills and / or
vegetation. The UAV should be in the line of sight of the UAV operator.
Operator of UAV countermeasures includes jamming signals
Satellite navigation and informs the operator of the UAV.

The UAV operator reports whether the satellites are missing from the UAV.

UAV countermeasures operator turns off signal jamming
Satellite navigation and informs the operator of the UAV.

Operator of UAV countermeasures includes jamming control signals
UAV and informs the operator of the UAV.

The UAV operator is reporting whether the UAV control has disappeared.

UAV countermeasures operator turns off signal jamming
control of the UAV and informs the UAV operator about it.

Paragraphs 2-8 are repeated with increasing distance between the UAV and the operator.
UAV countermeasures, for example, 1000, 1500, 2000 meters.

This check is performed with all available UAVs - as a quadcopter type,
It's a plane type. Maximum distance (distance and/or height)
jamming certain types of UAVs (separately for navigation signals and for signals)
control) recorded for the test means of countering the UAV.


19.
4. Security measures

Anti-UAV calculation forced to work in close proximity to the line
Therefore, you should always adhere to priorities, namely:

Priority #1: Ensuring the safety of fighters - using all available
personal protective equipment, hidden movement, arrangement of several places of work
(positions), camouflage, reliable cover for each other, working out approaches / departures and
That sort of thing.

Priority #2: Accomplishment of the task - competent planning and clear follow-up
commands and operational procedures.

Priority #3: Preservation of machinery - careful and safe handling
technical means.

Given the specifics of the work, you should constantly be aware of the dangers that

They are waiting for such a special unit. UAV countermeasures radiate very

a powerful signal that can be seen from many miles away,
Using UAV countermeasures must adhere to the following
rules:

Do not direct the switched-on UAV countermeasures device to the antenna
animals and electronic equipment from a distance of less than 5 meters
possible harm to health and damage to equipment. For the powerful
Dome electronic warfare, a dangerous distance can be 10 meters or more.

Do not put on the device counteraction UAV type "pan"
the front part to the surface and not to lay to the surface - possibly
damage to electronic circuits.

e Do not work with the UAV countermeasures device from open areas
From hills and buildings, there is a great risk of being trapped. Work from
squats or squats, or squats, and
buildings.

‹ Avoid a critically low battery level of the device
UAV countermeasures (less than 10%).

? Avoid significant heating of the body and components of the device
UAV countermeasures.

? Do not have or carry even switched off electronic devices
detection and counteraction of UAVs near electronic warfare, radar and
other radiating devices - possibly irreversible damage
electronic circuits of devices for detection and counteraction of UAVs.

e Do not turn on the UAV countermeasures without the need
There is an additional risk of being caught. Use devices
UAV countermeasures only if necessary and only in accordance with
task - thus you will extend the life of devices and personnel
anti-UAV calculation.

Work from
depths!

Danger zone!



20.

Hazardous radiation zone Minimization of visibility
UAV countermeasures
(panel antenna) countermeasures

UAV


21.
5. Operational procedures 5.1. Preparatory part 5.1.1. Getting the job done

The task is performed by the commander of the unit in the state (subordination) of which
There's an anti-UAV calculation.

5.1.2. Mission planning

The commander of the calculation, having received the BR, carries out the planning of the task and brings
to all the soldiers and to the commander of the unit.

On smartphones or tablets, a map of the area of the calculation zone is downloaded, where
location of calculation positions, directions of work, potential goals and
Location of the enemy and friendly units.

5.1.3. Preparation and verification of technical equipment

Having information about the task, the calculation prepares and checks the technical means,
which will be used to accomplish the task.

Considering that most of the technical means of calculating anti-UAV
energy dependent, first of all, the state of the power elements of all
components, including personal smartphones and tablets.

In case of impossibility to use certain technical means due to
damage, they are transferred for repair, as reported to the commander of the calculation.

Integrity of technical means as well as condition of transport is checked
containers, suitcases, backpacks, etc.

5. 1.4. Selection and arrangement of positions

Before being promoted to the position, thorough reconnaissance must be carried out.
to select a location that will provide maximum coverage of the space in
Area of responsibility. The calculation should take into account the terrain, the availability of shelters, height and
visibility of the position, availability of the position for entry and exit of equipment. Needed
ensure safety when moving to a position to avoid detection
enemy.

When choosing positions, many factors must be considered, among which -
capabilities of existing technical means of detection and counteraction of UAVs. This,
mostly real, not hypothetical, UAV detection distance and distance
effective suppression of the UAV.

The conditions and circumstances of the choice of positions may differ due to the characteristics of the
directions or other introductory ones. Accordingly, choosing a position, it is necessary to take into account:

1. Inspection and work sectors.

By what means will you work?
3. At what altitudes/distances/directions can you find?
organize counteraction taking into account the terrain, relief, development, vegetation
etc.
Where could there be shelling?
Where there are reliable shelters, where in case you can hide.
Where to hide / leave equipment and vehicles.
Ways and sequence of urgent withdrawal in case of unforeseen deterioration
combat situation.

pi

Setting up positions should take place before any active
calculation activities in this area. The arrangement of positions provides for the use of
Or create temporary shelters and disguise them. It is especially important to bear in mind that
UAV countermeasures equipment can be significantly heated and can be noticeable in
Thermal imager from a long distance both from the ground and from the air, so it is necessary to take
measures for thermal shielding of such equipment. Similarly, we need to take care of
similar to the masking of vehicles, the engine and wheels of which will be warm
long after the stop, even in winter.


22.


23.

When working in settlements with multi-storey buildings, it is better to use
prevailing heights if sufficient range is required. But it should.
Remember that the dominant heights are an easy and shot target for the enemy.
Therefore, it is necessary to prepare shelters and escape routes more carefully.

If you need to work from buildings, you need to constantly change your location.
reduces the risk of being swaddled by radio emission, but you need to be careful when
moving so that you are not visible visually, besides there is a danger of getting under the
Numerous debris from shells hitting buildings.

Working in tandem, the UAV detection operator and the UAV countermeasures operator,
They are located at a distance of at least ten meters on the front from each other. It's
This is due to two factors: ensuring the survival of the unit during the attack and
Inability to operate a sensitive drone detector near powerful radiation
UAV countermeasures.

5. 1.5. Cloaking

When arranging a position, the calculation must take into account the cloaking requirements to
minimize the possibility of detection by the enemy. It is important to protect against
observation from the air, for example, using natural shelters, forest belts, houses or
Awnings, which in turn should not overlap the sectors of work of funds
UAV countermeasures. It is also necessary to provide a thorough masking of the equipment and
equipment, using camouflage means, for example, masking nets, leaves,
snow, branches and so on.

The masking must be prepared and applied in accordance with local
terms. The calculation should check the camouflage of the position from different directions and from a height,
to ensure the effectiveness of the masking. In addition, masking should be constantly
It is updated in accordance with changes in the environment.

Important! Never openly display an anti-gun gun, whatever it is.
Whatever the color or shape it was! Always carry a masked cloak and
Cover yourself and the anti-drone gun! When using drones and bombers,
The enemy can use the tactics of remote surveillance of the drone-bait.
Accordingly, if you are jamming a drone bait, another drone observer can
"Draw" and transmit your coordinates to defeat the available means.
Therefore, always consider that the enemy sees you and always disguise yourself as if you are not.
visual observation and observation by means of thermal imaging cameras

5. 1.6. Communications organization

To establish communication with neighboring units, the commander of the calculation or
Free fighters of the support group establish communication with other units,
which are located in the area of detection and countermeasures of the UAV, and
connect to their radio networks - receive radio stations or prescribe their communication channels
radio stations and exchange radio calls. The main thing here is
timely mutual information.

Interaction within the calculation takes place through all means that
It can be used in current conditions - voice communication, gesture or
light signs, radio communication, mobile communication and the like.

There should never be anything like "Bird in the Sky" on the radio.
"Kra a 12", "Our copter", "Working", etc. Whatever connection is used, in habit.
The use of the coding table should be included. The table should be constantly updated.
It is the responsibility of the crew commander.

Any communication must be given in the light of what can be heard.
A man whose purpose is to find and kill. Don't make it easy for him. Always remember -
The enemy is eavesdropping.

5.2. Performing the task
After moving to a given point, the calculation immediately begins to detect the UAV,
In parallel, equipping positions and installing equipment. Calculation at any time


24.
must be ready to perform the task of countering the UAV. At this stage
Continuous monitoring of the airspace in the area
responsibility of all combatants of calculation, using all available means: drone detectors,
acoustic, optical, night and thermal imaging means of observation.


25.
5. 2.1. UAV detection
Depending on the configuration of the equipment and the task, the operator
UAVs can either conduct periodic frequency monitoring
UAV, leaving the shelter for this, or constantly working to detect and / or
UAV escort.

Important! Monitoring space to detect UAVs is necessary
to carry out not only in the direction of the enemy, but also on all sides, including its rear and
upper hemisphere. This is due to the enemy’s tactics of attacking from different directions.
Modern tactics of the use of barraging ammunition also provides
attack vertically from above to reduce the visibility of the UAV approach.

To identify the UAV work all fighters calculation, using their senses and
available technical means (radiofrequency, acoustic, optical,
thermal imaging devices, etc.).

The operator of the UAV detection means coordinates the detection of air targets,
Identifies and accompanies them, communicates with neighboring units and
Necessary gives orientation to the operator of counteraction of the UAV.

Given that most UAVs use radio communication with their operator,
It is easier to detect a UAV by its radio emission than visually or by sound.
So do not wait for the characteristic buzzing, but immediately start monitoring the drone.
Detector. In view of the limited number of Maviks and the gradual saturation of our
units with electronic warfare, the enemy monitors our positions
From a distance of about one to two kilometers, using the powerful optics of quadcopters.
Accordingly, you will not see or hear enemy UAVs, but thanks to the drone.
To the detector, you will be clearly aware of the presence of the UAV in a particular direction.

To detect a UAV using a drone detector, you should first turn on the preset
"EW", since it contains, in addition to all ranges of the UAV, also ranges of navigation.
Study the situation in all frequency ranges, in all directions and altitudes, and
with vertical and horizontal polarization.

After a few seconds of operation of the drone detector, on the spectrogram you can see
constant (stationary) interference - it can be electronic warfare, base stations
mobile operators, access points \!1-E1, constantly operating repeaters,
frequency of self-excitation of equipment and the like. These interferences and frequencies
are recorded by the operator of the means of detection of UAVs, in order to further their work
ignore.

To reduce interference that may distract the operator of the funds
detection of UAVs, it is necessary to minimize the calculation of anti-UAVs in the zone of operation
use of mobile devices with \1-E! and Vsheyuo like smartphones with distribution
mobile Internet via \/1-EE1, thermal imagers with \1-Eu, fitness bracelets with Vsheyuo,
weather stations and things like that. At the same time, stationary access points \ 1-EEE1 will not be
distract the operator's attention because their signal is constant in power and
direction. Such access points, a drone detector can "see" for several hundred years.
Meters, even if they are inside buildings.

32.2.2.
Same as IYA 8 1 Abbey

1 > Self-excited Suspicious d
activity similar to 2

t

signal-band


26.

Example of stationary interference - GTE-2600 network and self-excitation of equipment


27.

$ You need to keep away from the drone detector electronic devices like
laptops, mobile phones and smartphones - they create great interference in a wide range of
ro even with switched off radio modules SM, ZS, 44, \1-E1, Vsheyuo®.

It is necessary to limit the use of radio stations near the drone detector.
Powerful radiation transmitter radio "blinds" receiver drone detector. Prix
If you turn on the radio, the drone detector will not be able to receive weak signals.
It'll show no signal. If the operator of UAV detection devices personally
uses a radio station, for the period of transmission, it is necessary to carry a drone detector
the outstretched arm, pointing the antenna in the opposite direction from the radio station.

P-N VI = |

bw
jean

1 avine pile
GC

In

BOMMEN

Interference from

CN= 5

radio station

outside

? 2:
Smartphone interference

The appearance of a sharp and characteristic increase in the signal level on the monitoring frequencies
(splash) and characteristic white/yellow/red bands on the spectrogram falling under
known pattern, means the appearance of a UAV or the inclusion of EW in the zone of operation of the calculation.

In this case, the operator of the UAV detection means makes a report (report)
according to the established procedure.

PA Signal appearance
ERMA video transmission

.
The appearance of a signal from the UAV The appearance of signals from the UAV

(ERUDRON) in the 2.4 GHz band at 915 MHz (signal)
management

and at a frequency of 5.725 GHz (video transmission)

$ Important! If a suspicious signal is detected, the operator of the means of detection
The UAV can deploy to the entire screen a separate frequency range, where the signal appeared, for
more detailed study of it. But you can not get carried away by observing the signal on one
frequency range, it is necessary to periodically turn on the preset "Spot UAVs" for control
over all ranges, in all directions and altitudes, and with vertical and
horizontal polarization. For example, if a signal from the 2.4 GHz band was seen
A quadcopter OL, this quadcopter can monitor from a long distance
ERU drone-kamikaze, which operates at a frequency of 400-1100 MHz and can suddenly


fly in from the other side.

28.


29.

$ Due to the fact that most modern UAVs work with the radio channel in mode
PIRCH (pseudo-random adjustment of the operating frequency), on the display of the drone detector spikes from
UAVs will quickly jump in frequency, and the spectrogram will display characteristic
Damn it.

Displaying the PPPM signal from the UAV

5.2.1.1. Signal level and distance to the UAV.
Color matching signal level for all color schemes of the spectrogram:

Absence Very.
Signal | Weak level | Average level High

rigi

For all color schemes, red or yellow means a high signal level.

To understand the current level of the signal, and, accordingly, to determine approximately
The distance to the UAV can be guided by the display of the spectrogram. If the level
The signal from the UAV is very weak, and there are no other powerful signals around.
Spectrum analyzer automatically increases the gain, while starting to "stretch"
noise, which on the spectrogram looks like a light background, while the signal from the UAV will be
weak contrast (pale).

achna
one

It's 2.1306H2. / E __ Etan' 28 5 2.
An example of displaying a strong and weak signal from a UAV (quadcopter OL) (left)
distance of 500 meters, right distance of 4000 meters

$ Important point! The increase in the signal level from the UAV indicates its
Make a report and take precautions!


30.

$ At the maximum detection distances of the UAV, a very important role is played by altitude.
antennas and/or drone detectors above ground – lifting the antenna from the ground to a height
Human growth can already dramatically improve the reception of weak signals.


31.
5.2.1.2. Definition of UAV direction.

To quickly determine the direction of the UAV, you need to turn sharply
A drone detector with a directional antenna left or right 90 degrees and up and down
compare the intensity (brightness) of the signal on the spectrogram. Highest brightness
indicates the approximate direction (peleng) of the UAV. Accuracy of definition
The antenna-triangle direction is approximately 60 degrees. For
tracking UAVs, it is necessary to periodically turn the drone detector left-right
within a certain sector and adjust the direction to the maximum
The intensity (brightness) of the signal on the spectrogram.

Ushiuto 2-4 sig

She is.
aries

8ben

PLA's behind.

The UAV is behind us.

The UAV is on the side.

Direction to BIL

Direction to

= ILA is on the side

et

You know what?
Search for direction on the UAV - we observe a change in signal intensity on the spectrogram

In the case of several UAVs in the air, there will be several on the display
bursts with different amplitudes and bandwidth, depending on the types of UAVs,
distances and directions to them.

Robb Ivechii, yours! 110.1 uto Ra ng
With Irina's ET5. BI TOE

loom
CHEBNE

5.2. 1.3. Additional features for the UAV detection operator.

We draw your attention to the fact that using a drone detector is possible and necessary.
Also detect the work of electronic warfare, both enemy and friendly. Operation of EW funds
manifested as an increase in the power of the radio signal in a wide band (bands), in contrast to
from individual bursts as when detecting a UAV.

$ In addition, a drone detector based on a spectrum analyzer can detect
operation of many types of radio stations in the corresponding frequency ranges. Analog
radio stations can be listened to by connecting active headphones or active
acoustic system to the drone detector and including the corresponding option in the menu.

Properly analyzing the readings of the drone detector, you can determine a lot of useful
information. For example, if the enemy was a constant interference at a frequency of 1.5 GHz
(satellite navigation), but all of a sudden this interference disappears for a while - it can
This means that in this area the enemy will use their UAVs, which need


OP5/ Glonass.

32.


33.
5. 2.2. Countering UAVs

If the calculation is tasked with countering enemy UAVs, the operator of the means
UAV works on the instructions of the UAV detection operator (commander)
calculation.

All actions with technical means of countering the UAV should
So that the calculation is ready for the likely response of the enemy in the event of
directional radiation and attempts to find and destroy personnel and calculation equipment.

To counter the UAV, the operator uses pre-prepared technical
funds, taking into account all security measures.

It is recommended to use UAV countermeasures only when
visual contact is established and the operator can monitor the UAV's response to
jamming.

Of course, if necessary, to silence the drone-adjuster, which was
detected by a drone detector and located at a great distance,
try to defuse it to stop the targeted artillery fire from
side of the enemy.

When a target is detected by the operator of the UAV detection means, it fixes
direction to the object, clarifies in friendly units belonging to the UAV and
in case of undetermined accessory, transmits data to the operator of the funds
UAV countermeasures. The commander of the calculation determines the possibility of defeating the target,
taking into account the distance to it and other circumstances, and gives a command to the operator of funds
against the UAV, which begins to work with technical means
the received direction, taking the angle of lifting the anti-drone gun by 20 degrees from
horizon at a distance to the target of more than 500 meters and 30-45 degrees at a distance of less than 500
meters. Given the prompts of the operator of the UAV detection means, the operator
UAV countermeasures include certain jamming channels - which correspond to
frequency ranges of the detected UAV. In the absence of accurate information about
frequency ranges of detected (detected) UAV, counteraction operator
The UAV includes all jamming channels.

It should be noted that in the case of direct visibility of the UAV (in this case, the
goes about "wedding drones" OL, Ashschue| and the like, it is possible to determine it
belonging to "friend or foe" by performing the following jamming algorithm:

1) Enable jamming of control frequencies and do not include jamming of navigation frequencies (1.5 GHz).

2) If there is no constant interference with the navigation frequencies and
The quadcopter does not have its own muffler CP$, then the quadcopter, when lost
The control signal must automatically return home.

(3) It is necessary to observe which direction the quadcopter will begin to move:
The enemy's side is definitely an enemy UAV, if in our direction - it (may be)
your UAV.

(4) In case of movement of the UAV towards the enemy - immediately turn on jamming frequencies

navigation for the forced stop and landing of the UAV.

During the operation of countermeasures of the UAV, the operator of detection of the UAV, in
Inability to use a drone detector due to powerful radiation
("Blinding" receiver drone detector), switches to audio-visual surveillance,
and, together with other crew members, controls the UAV, which
is under the influence of means of countering the UAV, and also detects possible
other UAVs.

In the absence of visual observation of the UAV, which (are)
under the influence of anti-UAV means, after a minute of continuous operation
drone gun in the received direction, the gun is turned off, after which the operator
UAV conducts a new target search using a drone detector, such
thus adjusting the operation of the UAV countermeasures operator. It's necessary because
That if you lose control, the UAV can be visibly blown away by the wind, and so can
Get out of the affected area with UAV countermeasures. It's a minute algorithm.


34
operation of the anti-drone gun - making proofs" is applied before the landing of the UAV,
Or before the UAV signal disappears.
Depending on the selected mode of operation of the UAV countermeasures and
the capabilities of the UAV itself, the operator can force the drone:
1) Floating, or landing, or flying on an uncontrolled trajectory from
Demolition by wind (jamming control and navigation signals).
2) Leave the countermeasures zone (in case of using signal amplifiers on the
drone and remote control and professional work of the drone operator.


35.

$ After working out the means of countering the UAV, the calculation is necessary
Change position or move to shelter to prevent defeat
Responding to UAV countermeasures.

$ During the operation of countermeasures UAV (anti-drone gun, dome).
EW, etc.), the operator of UAV countermeasures must regularly (every minute)
control the power supply parameters (residue of battery capacity) and the temperature of the devices,
avoiding critical discharge of the battery and overheating of the housing and electronic circuits. In case
extreme necessity (completion of the task, attack of the UAV, etc.),
the operation of means of countering the UAV with a critical discharge of the battery and / or
critical heating of equipment, but it should be noted that such work can
lead to a decrease in the life of the equipment or to its further failure.
The commandant must prioritize the task and
Preservation of equipment for future tasks.

5.2.2.1. Work of the operator of countermeasures UAV in the infantry
divisions

Working in the staff of the main unit, the operator of UAV countermeasures
arranges itself positions 100-200 meters behind the controlled zone and includes its
equipment using the instructions of observers who are at the forefront of the joint venture and
report the location of the UAV, its type, the direction of movement of the UAV and the result
work of means of counteraction of the UAV. Information is transmitted in encrypted form,
for example:

"First," I'm "Second," take the message, over.

I'm "First", on call, over.

"First," I'm "Second," five blue foxes, I understand, over. I

"First," got you, five blue foxes, over.

(In this example, "blue" is the name of the landmark, "fox" is the type of UAV, "five" -
direction of movement or lack of movement).

Please note that observers are not required to report what has been discovered.
UAVs when they're above them - for enemy radio reconnaissance, that would mean receiving
SP coordinates. The report should be in the case of a UAV over the territory where
There are no friendly units.

The procedure for the operator of countermeasures UAV with anti-drone gun.

1) Having received a message about the appearance of the UAV (place, direction, height, possibly type)
UAV, operator of countermeasures UAV takes a position on
direction to the UAV, given its protection from detection and defeat.

2) The map determines the approximate distance to the Bila and the possibility
UAV countermeasures at such a distance.

(3) While in hiding, UAV countermeasures operator and other fighters
visual and auditory observation.

(4) In the event of a decision to use anti-UAV means,
UAV countermeasures operator includes all anti-aircraft jamming channels
Drone rifle and together with other fighters trying to see the UAV
An anti-drone gun is working.

(5) In case of visual detection of the UAV, the operator of countermeasures
The UAV begins one by one to turn off control jamming channels, monitoring
UAV reaction. At the same time, the jamming of the navigation channel (range 1.5 GHz) is not
It's off.

(6) If you turn off a certain jamming channel, the UAV through several
It moves not in the wind, but according to the commands of its operator.
This jamming channel must be activated immediately.

7) Operator of UAV countermeasures turns off other jamming channels
control, if they do not affect the UAV - to save battery power and
prevent the anti-drone gun from overheating.

(8) If the battery charge is sufficient for long-term retention of the UAV under
Obstacle, you must continue to jam the UAV until it lands.


36.
performing a safe landing algorithm in the absence of receiving navigation signals
and control, or because of the discharge of your battery.

If the operator of countermeasures UAV has a drone detector, it
independently conducts the detection of the UAV. During the operation of the anti-drone gun,
The drone detector moves to a place that does not fall under anti-drone radiation
Guns.


37
5.3. Retreat from position

After completing the task, the calculation must quickly and safely leave the position.
It is important to keep the mask and leave no trace of your presence - for the opportunity
In the future, use already prepared positions.

When leaving the position, it is necessary to check (recalculate) your equipment and
Things to leave nothing valuable.

After leaving the position, it is necessary to ensure the safety of calculation and equipment
transportation to the base or to the next place of work. The calculation should be used
camouflage activities and plan the route to avoid detection
enemy.

$ After using technical means of detection and counteraction of the UAV,

immediately carry out the necessary technical check, charging and maintenance of devices,
to ensure that they are ready for their next use.


38.
6. Annex 1. Procedure for working with a drone detector based on an analyzer
spectrum "Chpuzza Oga" with firmware version U3.2.0
6.1. Description
The drone detector is designed for long-term and early detection of UAVs and
other objects of radio emission.
The drone detector consists of the following components:
® Standard equipment:
Spectrum analyzer "ace A that with built-in battery".
The antenna points to the triangle.
Additional 20 dB HF amplifier (optional 30 dB or 40 dB)
dB.
Additional battery mounted in the handle holder.
Coaxial cable from antenna to RF amplifier (mounted).
Coaxial cable from the RF amplifier to the spectrum analyzer (mounted).
Cable ODS-C to power the spectrum analyzer (mounted).
A stylus on a rubber rope.
Plastic or metal holder.
Case for storage and transportation.
A plug for calibration of the spectrum analyzer.
Coaxial cable for calibrating the spectrum analyzer.
Cable ODS-C for charging the drone detector and for
Spectrum analyzer programming (for experienced professionals).
The telescopic antenna. It can be used for circular monitoring.
®* In addition, the following may be supplied:
o External light and sound alarm unit.
o Audio cable with TC$3.5 mm connectors for connecting active headphones.
o Antenna non-directional all-band pin with a magnetic base and
cable.

ooh.

The antenna is a highly directed "wave channel" ("ua21") with a cable.

Analyzer
spectrum
Oga's chubby

Turn off

antenna

Indicator

supplementary
EE

battery
Supplementary
leg
accumulate
moat
handle

indicato

O5B connector - rattle

booster

Drone detector assembled
(The actual appearance may differ from that shown in the drawings)

A drone detector is a passive receiver that has no
radiation and, accordingly, can not be detected and sealed by means of RER.


39.

Spectrum Analyzer "NpuZA TA" is a device for displaying radio signals in
within the frequency range of 100 kHz = 6000 MHz. Accordingly, such a device
can display radio signals from all known UAVs, electronic warfare, radio stations, \1-
E! devices and things like that.

The maximum range of detection of the UAV by this drone detector depends on
many conditions (height of the UAV flight, power of the UAV transmitters, antenna height or
drone detector above the ground, the type of antenna, the presence of an additional RF amplifier,
the presence of obstacles in the form of terrain, buildings, forest plantations, etc.) and
constitutes:

* Quadcopter-type UAVs, which are at an altitude of 50-500 meters - from
1 km to 5 km (using a directional antenna).

UAV aircraft type, which are at an altitude of 1000-5000 meters - from 10
km up to 30 km (using a directional antenna).

percentage This model of the drone detector does not yet have the ability to automatically
UAV identification, all analysis of information is carried out by the operator who
determines characteristic radiofrequency radiation according to previously studied patterns
signal emission spectra for various UAV models. Detection equipment operator
The UAV must undergo appropriate training in the use of such a device and
determining UAV models by their patterns of signal emission spectra.


40.

6.2. Rules of use
When working with a drone detector, the following rules must be observed:

1.

Do not place the antenna near the transmitting antenna and never touch the antenna.
metal objects in order to avoid damage to electronic
Static electricity components!

Do not leave the device under direct exposure to sunlight or other
thermal radiation due to the possibility of damage to plastic parts.

Do not expose the device to rain or moisture. Protect (cover)
device when used during rain or snowfall.

Avoid getting dust and soot on the surface of the device. In case
contamination of surfaces, clean the device with a dry and soft cloth or napkin.
Before use and during operation, periodically monitor the charge.
batteries - built into the spectrum analyzer and additional in the holder.
On a fully charged built-in battery, at plus temperature,
spectrum analyzer can operate from 2 to bh depending on the selected
brightness of the display. As part of the drone detector, where there is an additional
battery, the total operating time increases and is accordingly
6 to 20 hours.

Periodically check the tightening of coaxial cable connectors. Prix
Do not put too much effort into the wind.

Periodically pay attention to the inscription "+50 Plum" or "+100 SLI aV" in
upper left corner of the display - if it is red or pink, it is necessary
Calibrate the spectrum analyzer to improve performance
devices. For calibration, connect a short coaxial cable going into
set, connectors of the spectrum analyzer "SAT" and "BE", then go to the menu
Settings > Calibrate > Calibrate the radio. Wait for success
end of the procedure. After calibration, the inscription will be white.
when the automatic display scale or green color is enabled
manually.

The directional antenna must be oriented in most cases.
vertically (vertical polarization), but periodically
Monitoring with horizontally oriented antenna (horizontal)

% & polarization.

Signals with horizontal polarization have EP quadcopters with
horizontal antenna, if they have telemetry transmission enabled.

Z Ali > Gha'

Horizontal antenna

polarization

Vertical polarization
antennae
9. When searching for a signal source, it should be noted that

10.

accuracy of direction with a triangular logoperiodic or
rectangular horn antenna is approximately 60 degrees, with antenna
Type "wave channel" - about 10-20 degrees.

To work from closed positions, you can connect a remote to the drone detector
A pin antenna (for example, a car antenna).


41.
11. The non-directional pin antenna should be directed vertically upwards.
12. The detection range of the UAV increases when lifting the antenna and / or drone.
The detector is above the ground (if possible).


42.
6.3. Setting up
Before using a drone detector, you must first correctly
adjust the spectrum analyzer according to the recommended basic settings,
which are shown in the table. Given your experience and preferences, you can

other settings at your discretion and at your responsibility.

Setting value Location in the menu Note
Brightness 100% Main menu > Screen Set maximum brightness
100% display (also see section 6.14)
Automatic | Disabled | Main menu > Screen Disable automatic reduction
dimming the brightness of the display (also see the section)
6.14.)
Frequency markers 3 Set the number of markers
signal-maximum
Spectrogram | Size: Setup Enable spectrogram, select size
Large "big" and select the palette:
Palette: "Tibo" - to display all signals
Chafeglo <or>
"Peeglo" - to emphasize the powerful
signal
Sound signal [24 Settings Enable sound signal (also see)
section 6.14.
Select the required level
Volume. Choose a comfortable
Beeper frequency (default 1760)
Hz?
Frequency Grid [22 Setting Enable grid display and value
frequency
Settings Include range names
range
Anxiety level 40.0 dB Set a threshold level of anxiety
- horizontal blue line (also
See section 6.14.
Scale Auto Setting Set automatic display scale
chart
Built-in MBI UYO Setting>Enable the built-in RF amplifier - for
complete with additional HF-
20 dB amplifier (see also Section 6.5).
<or>
Turn off the built-in HF amplifier - for
complete with additional HF-
40dB amplifier
External 20.0 dB Setting > More Indicate External Amplification
MBI HF amplifier (depending on the model)
Calibrate at Settings>More>Calibrate Start calibration of the radio track
radio
Calibrate the screen At Settings > More > Calibrate Calibrate the touch screen
Hour g-xx-ss Settings>More> Set a date | Set the right time
and time (hours-minutes-seconds)
Date r-mm-dd | Settings>More>Set date | Set correct date (year-month-old)
and time of day
Extinction time is 10 seconds. Settings>More>Internal Peak Decline Rate (red line)
setup
Reaction time is 5 seconds. Interior speed of adaptation to the environment
[noise level settings]
Time is 10 seconds. Settings>More>Internal Scale Adjustment Speed
display reaction
scale
Display Settings > More > Internal Disable Value Display
noise threshold
Display Equally | Settings>Enter>Enterprise Display of the Same Size
setting ranges>Range ranges
ranges



43.

Deployment

Settings > More > Internal
settings>Configuration
range

Enable the scaling function



44.

6.4. Technical specifications

quadcopter-foot
type that
high
50-500 meters

GO-TO model 1- Basic model
OO-TO15- with built-in beeper
OO-TO1M with metal parts of the holder
OO-TGO15M - with built-in beeper and metal parts
holder
Maximum 1 to 5 kilometers (using a directional antenna)
range
UAV detection

maximum
range
UAV detection
aircraft type,
on
height 1000-5,000

10 to 30 kilometers (using a directional antenna)

RF booster

metre

Accuracy * Non-directional pin antenna: impossible to determine

direction

Directed logoperiodic antenna: approximately 60 degrees

Strictly directed antenna "wave channel": approximately 10-20
degree

Frequency 100 kHz = 6000 MHz

range

analyzer

spectrum

Frequency range 100 kHz = 800 MHz (sinus), 100 kHz = 4400 MHz (meander)

generator

HF amplifier in the frequency range: 100 kHz - 4000 MHz

Analyzer Enhancement: decreases from 20 dB per 100 kHz to 6 dB per 4000 MHz

spectrum

Additional Frequency Range: 10 MHz – 6000 MHz

Amplification: Can be 20 or 30 or 40 dB (also see section 6.3.)
Maximum input level: 33 dBm @ 1 GHz (2 W)

Display diagonal

10 cm/3.95", 480x320 pixels

Working hours
battery

8 hours (on the built-in spectrum analyzer battery)
16 - 20 hours (with additional battery)

Nutrition

* Built-in spectrum analyzer battery Gl-Ro! tag 3000
mic
* Additional battery GL-[op >6000 mAh]

Current consumption
(analyzer + amplifier)

* 495 mA from Ch5V-C (display brightness 100%)
* 395 mA from Ch5V-C (display brightness 6%)

Charger

5 B (03B-C)

Light indication

* Power from an additional battery
* Additional battery charge
Charging the spectrum analyzer

Sound indication

Built-in beeper: the buzzer when a strong signal appears,
exceeding the predetermined threshold level (models OO-TO1$,
rr-T91$M

Connectors

* Antenna - ZMA Yetai
» Calibration - ZMA Yestay

Audio output

Analog, linear, 3.5 mm TEZ (for active connection)
headphones or active acoustic system



45.

Complementary map
memory

M!go$r 32 GB

Holder material

Plastic RGA or PET / PETS (models OO-TO1, OO-TU1$)
Plastic + metal (models OO-TU1M, OO-T91$M)

Operating temperature

-10°C = +40°C

Working humidity 585%
Colour of body Black/camouflage
Overall dimensions | 320x140x260 mm

weight

640 = 800g - plastic holder (depending on material)
975 g - plastic holder with metal parts



46

6.5. Remarks on the 5.8 GHz range

The Oga Bubble spectrum analyzer has a low sensitivity in the 5.8 GHz range.
The search for signals in this range is possible only in the presence of high-quality external
HF amplifier, which, in turn, still does not guarantee long-range detection of the UAV.

When scanning the 5.8 GHz range, we recommend temporarily disabling the built-in
HF amplifier - menu item "Settings > More > Built-in USH", this will save you from
additional interference that the built-in RF amplifier makes in this range.

6.6. Controls of the Oga Bubble spectrum analyzer

Kolshatko
(Wiclick that's got MEMU,

The button activates the function
Tea

No.

Anteny chicks
That's $3.5.

Bper Toure C (visible beep)
c _(20-tu1$) (charging / in plain sight! signals)
Oneniyeiran refashioning) of a given rage

(responding to force onslaught)
Controls of the spectrum analyzer CPUZA Oga
Note that the touch screen responds to clicks, not to

touch. Accordingly, you need to press the screen with a stylus, nail, finger or
another light object.


47.
6.7. Power on, power control and recharging
Drone detector has dual power - built-in spectrum analyzer battery
and an additional battery in the handle holder. Additional battery
used to power an additional HF amplifier and to extend the operating time
spectrum analyzer.

6.7.1. Inclusion

First, turn on the power from the additional battery keyboard
switch - the red indicator will light up to the left of the switch. If the indicator is not
ignited - turn off and switch on again to restart the controller
extra battery. After switching on power from an additional
In the battery, turn on the spectrum analyzer switch on its upper panel.

Occasionally there is a locking of the controller of the additional battery, which
It is impossible to turn it on with a key switch, even if you
We are sure that the additional battery is charged. In that case, connect the charger.
device to the socket ODS-C on the front side of the handle for restarting the controller
extra battery.

6.7.2. Nutrition control

= Note that the additional battery feeds the spectrum analyzer, that is, when
powered by an additional battery, spectrum analyzer continuously
It is recharged and does not work on its built-in battery, namely on
extra battery. Accordingly, the additional battery will be discharged.
The first, while the battery built into the spectrum analyzer, most likely, will still be
have a high level of charge.

On the right side of the handle there is a hole to control the charge of the additional
The battery consists of four blue lights. While working,
The indicators will decrease from left to right. Each indicator is 25% charge. When
additional battery is switched on by key switch, blue indicators
glow constantly, and after switching off, they glow for about 10-30 seconds.
Check the charge indicator periodically.

If there is only one blue light, you need to charge an additional one.
Drone detector battery.

If the last blue indicator flashes, it means that the charge is additional.
There's almost no battery left.

If there is no blue indicator and no red indicator
The drone detector battery is dead. At the same time, the additional HF-
the amplifier, and the spectrum analyzer runs on its built-in battery. It's normal.
condition with prolonged operation of the drone detector without the possibility of charging it. Like that.
In this case, you can use the spectrum analyzer only on its built-in
battery. To do this, switch the antenna cable from the input of the additional amplifier.
To the lower socket of the spectrum analyzer. All functions of the drone detector will work, but
absence of an additional HF amplifier, sensitivity and, accordingly, range
UAV detection will be slightly smaller in the ranges of 600-900 MHz and 2.4 GHz and
significantly less in the 5.2 GHz and 5.8 GHz bands.

If you use an additional 40 dB HF amplifier,
The built-in amplifier (USP) must be turned off in the settings. Accordingly, with
direct connection of the antenna to the spectrum analyzer, it will be necessary to turn on
Built-in USS in the spectrum analyzer settings menu (see section 6.3.). After
Recharge the additional battery and restore the normal
connect cables, do not forget to turn off the built-in USH again in the settings menu
spectrum analyzer.

Control the charge of the built-in battery of the spectrum analyzer by the pictogram in
The bottom left corner of the display.



48.

OLD

Charge pictogram of the spectrum analyzer battery


1. First.
disconnect this one

2. Disconnect this connector
and attach to
analyzer
spectrum
Connect the antenna directly to the spectrum analyzer

$ As carefully as possible, connect and disconnect the connectors to the drone detector!
Antenna connectors are not designed for the application of great effort and require even and
a smooth twist.

6.7.3. Charging.

To charge the drone detector, connect the charger with a voltage of 5 V to
C$V-S socket on the front of the handle, with blue indicators
The additional battery will flash from right to left. After full charge, all
The four indicators will be constantly glowing.

While charging an additional battery, be sure to turn on the power of the drone.
detector with a key switch in order to also charge the built-in
spectrum analyzer battery. Charging this battery is accompanied by a glow
a red indicator on the top panel of the spectrum analyzer. After full charge, this
The indicator will go out.

After charging the additional battery and built-in battery
spectrum analyzer, turn off the drone detector power key switch. Also.
Always turn off this key switch when the drone detector is not in use.
Since even if the spectrum analyzer is turned off, the charge of the additional battery
It is spent on feeding an additional HF booster.



50.
6.8. Choice of mode of operation

After switching on the spectrum analyzer, you can select the desired frequency range
to search for certain types of UAVs, according to the task.

Special firmware spectrum analyzer has the so-called "presets" -
Pre-tuned frequency ranges with clear names for easy detection
radio signals from various devices (UAVs, radio stations, mobile phones, \/1-E1)
devices, electronic warfare, networks of mobile operators ©6 $M/3C/4C, etc.). Presets can.
include a set of multiple frequency bands, or a single frequency band.
The user can create several presets with one frequency range, and
It can also create multiple proprietary presets with a set of frequency bands.

If a preset with a set of ranges was selected - pressing at the top of the display on
one of the ranges will deploy it to the entire width of the screen, re-pressing will return to many different
range mapping.

To detect a UAV using a drone detector, you should first turn on the preset
"Different UAVs" and study the situation in all frequency ranges of possible operation
UAVs in all directions and altitudes, as well as vertical and horizontal
polarization.

After a few seconds of operation of the drone detector, on the spectrogram you can see
constant (stationary) interference – these may be signals from mobile base stations
operators, access points \1-E1, constantly working repeaters, self-excitation
equipment and things like that. These disturbances and frequencies are recorded by the operator.
detection of UAVs in order to ignore them in further work.

To quickly determine the direction of the UAV, you need to sharply turn the drone.
detector with a directional antenna left or right 90 degrees and up and down - operator
finds the sector with the highest signal level, this is the approximate direction (peleng)
UAV. The accuracy of determining the direction with such a drone detector is
about 60 degrees. If there is time and opportunity, you can specify the direction of
The UAV slowly rotates the drone detector within a specific sector and observes the
slight changes in signal intensity on the spectrogram.



51.

6.9. Display elements
Below are the main display elements on the display.

Scale Markers Name Grid Scale Level Scale
maximum frequency ranges of the level of
decibel

Pictogram Date Marker Initial Power Line Spectrogram
Charge and frequency signal spectrum ma
battery time of signal range line (red) ("waterfall")

a time (yellow)

Designation of the main display elements on the display (firmware version U3.0.0.0)

Gray scaling zone Black scaling zone - Coefficient
'scaling'

MN.

CENTER = Snake
Designation of zoom zones on the display (firmware version from U3.1.0)


52.
In addition to the display elements indicated in the figures, on the display in the left part
It also displays:
® "Signal 40 AV" in green - sound alarm is turned on (40 AV - threshold).
® "Signal off" in pink - the sound alarm is turned off.
® "Scan:SH XXX" scanning speed of the current preset.
® "USP" in green - the built-in HF amplifier is included.
® "Pods: 20 AV" in green - the level of gain of external RF amplifier.
® "ZO" in green - a map of pl1sgo$ is inserted (the screenshots do not show).

6.10. Scaling function

Starting with the firmware version U3.1.0, a function appeared in the spectrum analyzer
scaling, which "stretches" a certain portion of the spectrum and spectrogram, and
allows you to consider in detail the necessary signal for its study and identification.

Depending on the bandwidth of the selected range (preset), the maximum
The scale factor can be different. The scaling factor can
have values of x5, x20, x100, x500, x2000, x10000. Scaling factor
is displayed in the upper right corner of the display in yellow for firmware version U3.1. 0,
or in the upper left corner of the display in green for firmware version U3.2. 0.

You can freely combine manual and automatic scaling.

6.10.1. Method 1 - Manual scaling

To increase the scaling of the area of interest to you with a signal, touch
a stylus on the surge of the signal within the gray zone of the display. To reduce
zoom, tap the stylus above the signal burst within the black zone
display.

We recommend first to expand the desired range to the entire width of the screen by clicking on
range at the top of the display - this will allow you to more accurately hit the stylus on the splash
signal.

To quickly exit the zoom mode, select any preset in the menu.

After switching off and powering on the spectrum analyzer, selected
There's no scaling.

mer

hand-scaling

Direct frequency 915 MHz

In this example, first deploy the desired range to the entire width of the screen,
Then we zoom in on the burst. The signal we're seeing is a PIRCH signal.
drone control, EGW$ standard, central frequency 915 MHz, band approximately 26

MHz (from 902 MHz to 928 MHz). To the right of this signal is the base station operating lane
O5M.



53.
Example of manual scaling of a signal with a central frequency of 866 MHz


Example of manual signal scaling in the 5.8 GHz band

6.10.2. Method 2 – Automatically scaling the strongest signal

At any time, open the main menu, and in the screen settings click on the line "+"
zoom in to zoom in for the strongest signal. Strongest signal ever.
Selected from all ranges displayed on the display. The strongest signal will be
in the middle of the display.

You can zoom in or out several times through the menu.

nasti + in MASOTB

COEO + Zilsiti No.

[she]
|oviemigi

"Scale" in screen settings

700-960

C 1: |=.
U3.2.0 versions.

CENTER,
Koe display

1.5.
scaling for the past

ffizio


55.
6.11. Frequency search
During normal operation (when the menu is not displayed), pressing the wheel to the left or
to the right, it is possible to move marker No. 1 along the spectrum and find out the exact frequency of a certain
splash. You can briefly press the wheel to move the marker to a small
distance, or you can pinch the wheel so that the marker moves quickly across the spectrum. During
movement of the marker, the display of the spectrum freezes, and is restored automatically
One second after the wheel is released.

Please note that if you have switched off the markers in your settings, then short
pressing the wheel to the right will select the display of individual frequency ranges in
Preset with a set of several frequency ranges (left-right), and a short press
the wheel to the left will return the display of all frequency ranges of the current preset.

6.12. Screen menu
To open the menu, press the spectrogram or the wheel.

® BPAI RESIGN
OPIERA

Oran Zal's Lancet

W.L. BLAY

SHOWS +

| SHOWS +

| SHOWS +

| SHOWS +

MORE +

| FUCKING +

Main menu

To navigate the menu, use a stylus by touching the desired menu items, or
Wheel - reject it to the right and left to move the allocation of the menu item
respectively down and up and press the wheel to select the allocated item.

The selected preset is indicated by a pictogram with a black circle.

To navigate through the menu pages, use the links "NOTHER -" and "P< BACK".

Menu items with the arrow "P-" lead to the submenu.

To close the menu, click on the display outside the menu or reject the wheel.
Left until the menu disappears. Starting with firmware 3.1.0, the menu closes automatically.
15 seconds if you do not perform any actions on the menu. After closing the menu, part
The spectrogram will be absent from the place where the menu was displayed - this is normal.
phenomenon.


56

6.13. The work of a drone detector with a remote antenna

In the event of a threat to life and the impossibility of continuous monitoring
directional antenna, the operator of the means of detection of the UAV can, while in shelter
or in a vehicle, connect a remote pin antenna to the drone detector and
set it outside. For this, an all-band car pin is used.
antenna with a cable and magnetic base. The antenna must be connected to the entrance of the external HF-
amplifier. It is desirable to install such an antenna on a flat metal base -
for this, the roof of the car, metal zinc from cartridges, metal
A box (box) of ammunition, or any flat metal (iron) object.
The antenna must be mounted vertically and in the center of the metal base, but
The most important thing is to be as high as possible (as long as the cable is sufficient). We could just wind up the antenna.
Scotch to a stick stuck in the ground. Thus, it is possible to organize a safe
stationary round-the-clock monitoring point. When connecting a drone detector to
power supply or overbank, the time of its operation can be unlimited. For convenience.
detection of signals from the UAV, in the drone detector you can turn on sound and light
alarm.

Connecting a remote antenna to a drone detector

At the most gently connect and disconnect the connectors to the drone detector!
Antenna connectors are not designed for the application of great effort and require even and
a smooth twist.

Please note that non-directional all-band pin antennas
They have less sensitivity than directional antennas, so you need to take into account
that the detection distance of UAVs with such antennas is significantly reduced - for example,
OL quadcopters can be detected only from a distance of 1000-1500 meters, while with
With a directional antenna, this distance is up to 5000 meters. We recommend replacing
complete cable to the BS223 cable of the desired length.

a Antenna without metal
a Metal antenna

Antenna on the roof



57
The work of a drone detector with a remote antenna


58.

6.14. Sound and light alarms

Spectrum analyzer has the function of sound and light signaling
A strong signal that exceeds a given threshold. Besides, on display.
the name of the range in which a signal exceeding a threshold has appeared,
It turns pink. If the signal does not exceed the threshold level, the name
The range is displayed in blue.

The value of the threshold level (blue horizontal line on the display) is set in
depending on the operating conditions - the menu item "Setting up>Alarm level".

You can independently turn on and off sound and light alarms.

6.14.1. Sound alarm system

Sound alarm is activated when signals exceeding the specified
threshold level. Use built-in beeper (models RO-TO1$, OO-TO1$M) or
connect an external alarm unit or an active acoustic system, or
active headphones to the socket audio output 3.5 mm - if the signal exceeds the specified
The threshold level will sound like a buzzer. To operate the function of sound alerts,
Turn on the "Sound signal" option in the settings and select the desired level
Loudness and comfortable tone (frequency) of the buzzer.

$ The tone of the buzzer will automatically step up if the signal level
It has reached the threshold and continues to grow.

Connecting active headphones

Powerbank
block

Nutrition
acoustic drone-
oy

system


59.
Connection of an active acoustic system powered by ODS


60.
6.14.2. Light alarms

Light alarm works by automatically increasing the brightness of the display
Signals that exceed the threshold level.

To enable this function, perform the following settings:

1. Select in the settings "Screen" the desired brightness of the display, a large "2%".

Usually set the following brightness values of the display:
® In the afternoon, 100%.
® At dusk, 25%.
® 6% at night.

2. Enable in the settings "Screen" function "Automatic dimming"
(automatically reduce the brightness of the display) and specify the time interval in
After which, the brightness of the display will be minimal.
"2%."

In the absence of signals exceeding a given threshold, brightness
The display will be minimal (2%). When signals appear that exceed the specified
threshold level, the brightness of the display will automatically increase to a given value,
This makes it clear that there is a strong signal. After the strong signal disappeared,
After a given time interval, the brightness of the display will again become minimal (2%).

The higher the brightness of the display was set in the settings - the more noticeable the effect will be.
light alarm.

Meat +

ROUND

Setting up
That's the _____.
10 SEC - darkening
2%
OBE
Setting up
display brightness

Snives.

Menu "Screen" - setting up a light alarm

To turn off the light alarm, select "Off" for the setting
"Automatic blackout."

Meat +

ROUND
Turn it off.
luminous

BUT NOT DIGNED = alarms
2%
5 per cent
©1412
25%
4w
79
100%
nazal

Screen menu - switching off light alarms


61 61
6.14.3. Configure exceptions for alarm ("special" ranges)

Starting with the firmware version U3.2.0, a new function appeared in the spectrum analyzer.
definitions of "special" ranges in which the alarm is switched off or specified
Another threshold level of alarm.

Disabling the alarm or coarsening (increasing) its threshold in certain
ranges will allow to exclude from the alarm standard powerful sources
radio signals, for example, signals from base stations of cellular operators that
In the past, there have been occasional unnecessary alarms.

In addition, it is possible to make certain ranges with greater
Sensitivity (lower threshold level of signaling), for example,
dangerous bands, where any signal will indicate the appearance of a UAV.

To turn off the alarm in the "special" range, set the value "0"
(zero) for the "Alarm level" parameter. To set your threshold level

set the value for the parameter "Alarm level" in decibels from "1" to
"127."

%&Ranges designated as "special" are displayed as
Stripes filled with gray dots. If the alarm is switched off for this range,
There will be no blue threshold line on the display within this range.
alarms. If you have set a threshold other than the general one, within
In this range, the blue line of the threshold level will be displayed at a given mark in
Decibels.

The table contains a list of frequency bands of base stations (BS) of mobile operators.
Ukraine, for which you can turn off the alarm. On the spectrogram you will be
see the frequency bands of the BS transmitters - since the transmitters have a high
power and work constantly, and in the receiver bands of the BS will be weak irregular
signals from mobile terminals.

Check the table, find the frequency bands that are used in your region.
Add them to the list of "special" ranges.

Operator Receiver BS, | Transmitter Receiver Transmitter Receiver BS | Transmitter Type
. MHz BS MHz BS MHz BS MHz MHz BS MHz [networks]
standard PJSC "Kyivstar" LLC "Lifesell" PJSC "VF Ukraine"

05-900 8844-8862 | 9294-9312 | 8952-8998 | 9402-9448 9002-9068 | 9452-9518 | 29
888.6 -889.8 | 933.6-934.8 | 907.2-907.6 | 952.2 - 952.6
890.0 - 894.8 | 935.0 - 939.8
908.0 - 910.2 | 953.0 -955.2
25-1800 | 17252 - 1749.8 | 1820.2 - 1844.8 | 1710.2 - 1724.8 | 1805.2 - 1819.8 | 1750.2 - 1769.8 | 1845.2 - 1864.8 | 26
1770.2 - 1779.8 | 1865.2 - 1874.8 1780.2 - 1784.8 | 1875.2 - 1879.8
TLE-900 890.0-895.0 | 9350-9400 | 8950-900.0 | 9400-9450 | 9000-9050 | 9450-9500 | 49
GTE-1800 | 1730.0 - 1750.0 | 1825.0 - 1845.0 | 1710.0 - 1725.0 | 1805.0 - 1820.0 | 1750.0 - 1770.0 | 1845.0 - 1865.0 | 46
GTE-T8OOTN | 1725.2 - 1749.8 | 1820.2 - 1844.8 | 1710.2 - 717.6 | 1805.2 - 1812.6 | 1750.2 - 1769.8 | 1845.2 - 1864.8 | 4b
1770.2 - 1779.8 | 1865.2 - 1874.8 | 1710.0 - 1725.0 | 1805.0 - 1820.0 | 1780.2 - 1784.8 | 1875.2 - 1879.8

1730.0 - 1750.0 | 1825.0 - 1845.0 1750.0 - 1770.0 | 1845.0 - 1865.0
GTE-2600 | 2520.0 - 2535.0 | 2640.0 - 2655.0 | 2535.0 - 2545.0 | 2655.0 - 2665.0 | 2510.0 - 2520.0 | 2630.0 - 2640.0 | 4b
|OMT$-NOMA 1967,4 2157.4 1922.8 2112.8 19524 2142.4
1972.4 2162.4 1927.6 2117.6 1957.4 2147.4
19772 21672 1932.4 2122.4 1962.4 2152.4

percent In the firmware U3.2.0 has already added several "special" ranges
frequency bands of base stations, which are most common in the territory
Ukraine:

1. 925.0 - 960.0 MHz

2. 1805.0 - 1880.0 MHz

3. 2110.0 - 2170.0 MHz

4. 2620.0 - 2690.0 MHz


62.
7. Annex 2. Examples of patterns of radiation spectrum signals of some UAVs

Horizontal
polarization
shadows (signal:

weak:
vertical
polarization

TA! 6 .51.0MNg/TOP, g t .1906N2 _-51.0MNg/ZTOR,
Ale quadcopters! Euo 2/Ge+ (the signal bandwidth is wider than that of OL, but with poor communication with
By remote control, the quadcopter reduces the bandwidth for more stable communication.


63.

#50 VET 2.
#0 2.

=

Ashe's quadcopter! YEU 2 RGO UZ UGRIZE






66.


p
Aya R, MAI, Ai Alan

2. 200

Unknown aircraft-type UAV, distance 1-3 km

And

86915 MH2

304, O5MN ARINE 5.02 920.240MN:
Zbobbine m Bznine

334.0
sheep

MN.

Signal base station O5M-

Unidentified signals,
900 on the right base station 95M-900

Transmission signal |

ERU quadcopter |
Control and telemetry: UGW$ PPW with a central frequency of 915 MHz and a band of approximately 26 MHz
Video transmission: analog video in the 5.8 GHz band (in this example 5.725 GHz)


BLAE
24 ve 69.24.

.bomne 1-combined. 1z9bng,

Several EPU quadcopters
Control and telemetry: PPRF at 868 MHz and 915 MHz
Video transmission: analog video in the 5.8 GHz band

In
RA 116-88

Several EPU quadcopters
At least six video bands can be seen in the 5.8 GHz band


69
8. Annex 3. Examples of EW signal emission spectra

sochi

MAT
RAMT

Visa tagon:
NA

1.2056H=. en V t Zori E
1.188682 1.218642 and no:
Shih | - ANI |

1st

VISUSTEGON $65 ($11:5)
University-NR-N:2-N-N- $4$:12 1.2

1.2.
Deva

1.16Z6H2 12.7MNE/

| da sng

| 2.547n 2.55058
and [webne van 5]



EW signal in the 5.2 GHz range

2T 5.7338 5CN 4.94Vm

t

GRU 5.8
AI

d

C. EW in the 5.8 GHz range



Nah:

b

Goiter: ETHOR 5.CWBNE EET 2.5506H2

TOP 1.

An example of testing a six-channel anti-drone gun

